A recommendation system is a type of information filtering
system which challenges to assume the priorities of a user,
and make recommendations on the basis of user’s priorities.
Huge range of applications of recommendation systems are
provided to the user. The popularity of recommendations
systems have gradually increased and are recently
implemented in almost all online platforms that people use.
The content of such system differs from films, podcasts,
books and videos, to colleagues and stories on social media,
to commodities on e-commerce websites, to people on
commercial and dating websites. Often, these systems are
able to retrieve and filter data about a user’s preferences,
and can use this intel to advance their suggestions in the
upcoming period. For an instance, Twitter can analyze your
collaboration with several stories on your wall so as to
comprehend what types of stories please you. Many a times,
these systems can be improvised on the basis of activities of
a large number of people. For example, if Flipkart notices
that a large number of users who buy the modern laptop also
buy a laptop bag. They can commend the laptop bag to a new
customer who has just added a laptop to his cart. Due to the
advances in recommender systems, users continuously
expect good results. They have a low edge for services that
are not able to make suitable recommendations. If a music
streaming application is not able to foresee and play song
that the user prefers, then the user will just stop using it.
This has led to a high importance by technical corporations
on refining their recommendation structures. However, the
problem is more complicated than it appears.
Every user has different likes and dislikes. In addition, even
the taste of a single customer can differ depending on a large
number of aspects, such as mood, season, or type of activity
the user is performing. For an instance, the type of music one would prefer to listen during exercising varies critically from
the type of music he would listen to while preparing dinner.
They must discover new areas to determine more about the
customer, whilst still determining almost all of what is
already known about of the customer. Two critically
important methods are widely used for recommender
systems. One is content-based filtering, where we attempt to
shape the users preferences using data retrieved, and
suggest items based on that profile. The other is
collaborative filtering, where in we try to cluster alike users
together and use data about the group to make
recommendations to the customer. 